Electronics & Programming Final!

All of my photo documentation can be found here http://imgur.com/a/lwzjM I will also upload it to GitHub. 

What I did
I created a POV display fan with particle! This fan spins at high speed while using 5 LED’s which blink at 
different intervals in order to display words in the air! The blinking of the LED’s are calibrated to the 
speed of the fan, which creates an illusion called the Persistence of Vision, or POV for short!

How I did it
I found code from a project posted online which suited my needs for creating this machine. Then I collected 
my materials which consisted of 5 LED’s, 5 Resistors, a Particle, a battery for the Particle, a propeller, 
a motor, LOTS of wires, glue, and the soldering machine! Then I created the LED matrix on a bread board in 
order to make sure it worked; However I couldn’t confirm it working by shaking it back and forth because 
the bread board connections were too flimsy. This meant I had to take a leap into making the circuit on a 
more stable perf board and attach it on a propeller to make sure it worked. I looked at tutorials on YouTube 
on soldering and transferred the schematic from the breadboard to a perfboard through soldering. This was a 
very tedious process which I will talk about later. After creating the LED board, I had to bring power to 
it so I attached a battery on the back with appropriate heads to make the Particle work. It also acts as 
a counter balance for the propeller. Then I ordered a 500rpm motor and laser cut a propeller for the project. 
I attached the battery and LED board to the propeller and then attached the propeller to the motor, which I 
inserted into a block of wood for stability. Then I debugged the project, and with countless repetitions and 
persistence, I managed to make it work! 


What I learned along the way

How to make an awesome project!! I thought this was a fantastic eye opener into the world of electronics. 
Before this project, I had never soldered or created anything electronic to this magnitude of technicality. 
Even though I took most of the code from an online project, I slightly tweaked it to fit my machine and perform 
accordingly. I understand every aspect of the code which makes the LED’s tick and did not change much for that 
reason. Hopefully understanding the fundamentals of what I created as well as being more heavy towards the 
hardware aspect, is enough to get a good grade!

What I would do differently

Create a more robust POV device with more LED’s! First off, I would make sure the connection between the LED matrix and
the propeller is extremely solid and not a catapult! Then I would increase the diameter of the propeller in order to have
more room and opportunities to make cool displays! I would also consider attaching the LED’s parallel to the propeller 
instead of perpendicular. I would like to eventually make a clock display or animations on the spinning propeller. 


5 most difficult problems. 
- Soldering the perfboard to fit all 5 LED's, resistors, and particle board. 
  - Figuring out how to solder was hell let me tell you. From accidentally soldering the wrong connections to working my way
  around the mistakes, I really appreciate everything I learned about the process!
- Making sure that the perfboard's connection was going through all the way
  - I had trouble with overusing solder, slowly but surely I figured my way out of the mess!
- attaching the LED board to the propeller
  - I tried makin the propeller out of two materials, acrylic and wood. I decided that acrylic would be 
    tough to deal with so I went with wood. I tried screwing in the board but it snapped. So I ended up
    super gluing it. 
- GETTING THE DAMN THING TO WORK
  - I went through countless attempts of getting the final product to work. At one point only one of the LED's was lighting up
    when I increased the voltage on the motor. I then found out it was the ground wire's fault and tried dealing with it. 
    after attempts of gluing or rearranging the wires and no avail, I ended up resoldering the ground component to make the 
    board work. 
- While trying to do debug the final the board completely flew off the propeler atleast 3 times in my attempts. I had to reglue it
  serveral times. Then I ended up implementing rubber bands in order to prevent the board from leaning forward and building 
  up momentum for launch!
